applications: nrf_desktop: Porting guide (#1765)
NordicPlayground/fw-nrfconnect-nrf: applications/nrf_desktop/doc/porting_guide.rst

      * |preconfigured_build_types|

Dongle (nrf52840_pca10059)
      * This configuration uses Nordic's nRF52840 dongle defined in Zephyr.
      * Since the board is generic, project-specific changes are applied in the DTS overlay file.
      * The application is configured to act as both mouse and keyboard.
      * Bluetooth uses Nordic's proprietary link layer and is configured to act as a central.
        Input data come from Bluetooth and are retransmitted to the USB.
      * |preconfigured_build_types|

.. _porting_guide_adding_board:

Adding a new board
******************

When adding a new board for the first time, focus on a single configuration.
Moreover, keep the default ``ZDebug`` build type that the application is built with, and do not add any additional build type parameters.

.. note::
    The following procedure will use the gaming mouse configuration as example.

To use the nRF Desktop project with your custom board:

1. Define the board by copying the nRF Desktop board files that are the closest match for your hardware.
   For example, for gaming mouse use ``nrf/boards/arm/nrf52840_pca20041``.

> #. Edit the DTS files to make sure they match the hardware configuration.

Reviewer: There are also the Kconfig files for the board

Author: There are and it is worth mentioning here.

Author: done

   Pay attention to pins that are used and to the bus configuration for optical sensor.
#. Copy the project files for the device that is the closest match for your hardware.
   For example, for gaming mouse these are located at ``applications/nrf_desktop/configure/nrf52840_pca20041``.
#. Optionally, depending on the board, edit the DTS overlay file.
   This step is not required if you have created a new board and its DTS files fully describe your hardware.
   In such case, the overlay file can be left empty.
#. In Kconfig, ensure that the following modules that are specific for gaming mouse are enabled:

>     * :ref:`motion`

Reviewer: Should we also mention Bluetooth advertising and HID state here?

>     * :ref:`motion`

Reviewer 2: These IDs must be unique across the whole documentation set. I'd recommend adding some kind of prefix to them (e.g. `nrfdesktop_motion`) so that we don't run into problems with duplicated IDs at some point.

Author: True, I think this will have to be a wide change around the nrf_desktop doc files. Not only this single name can lead to problems. Maybe this could be done in subsequent PR.

    * :ref:`wheel`
    * :ref:`buttons`
    * :ref:`battery_meas`
    * :ref:`leds`

#. For each module enabled, change its ``_def`` file to match your hardware:

    * Motion module
        * The ``nrf52840_pca20041`` uses the PMW3360 optical motion sensor.
          The sensor is configured in DTS, and the sensor type is selected in the application configuration.

>           If you need to add a new sensor, expand the application configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          To add a new sensor, expand the application configuration.
```

>     * wheel module

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Wheel module
```

        * The wheel is based on the QDEC peripheral of the nRF52840 device and the hardware-related part is configured in DTS.

>     * buttons module

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Buttons module
```

        * To simplify the configuration of arrays, the nRF Desktop project uses ``_def`` files.

>         * The ``buttons`` module's ``_def`` file contains pins assigned to rows and columns.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        * The ``_def`` file of the buttons module contains pins assigned to rows and columns.
```

    * GATT Battery module

>         * The battery module ``_def`` file contains mapping needed to match the voltage read from ADC to the battery level.

Reviewer: This is used by the battery measuring hw_interface (BAS does bit use it)

>         * The battery module ``_def`` file contains mapping needed to match the voltage read from ADC to the battery level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        * The ``_def`` file of the battery module contains the mapping needed to match the voltage read from ADC to the battery level.
```

>     * leds module

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * LEDs module
```

        * The application uses two LEDs -- one for the peers state, and one for the system state indication.

>         * To control each LED brightness, the project uses the PWM channels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        * The project uses PWM channels to control the brightness of each LED.
```

>           The PWM peripheral needs to be configured in DTS files, and the leds module ``_def`` file needs to be configured to indicate which PWM channel is assigned to each LED color.

Reviewer: The PWM should also be enabled in Kconfig

>           The PWM peripheral needs to be configured in DTS files, and the leds module ``_def`` file needs to be configured to indicate which PWM channel is assigned to each LED color.

Reviewer: Mention `led_state_def.h`?

Reviewer: PWM has to be also enabled in Kconfig.

Author: led state def defines effects used for system state not how leds physical are linked to logical leds.

enabling PWM driver is worth mentioning

Author: done

>           The PWM peripheral needs to be configured in DTS files, and the leds module ``_def`` file needs to be configured to indicate which PWM channel is assigned to each LED color.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          The PWM peripheral must be configured in DTS files, and the ``_def`` file of the LEDs module must be configured to indicate which PWM channel is assigned to each LED color.
```

#. Review Bluetooth options in Kconfig.
   Refer to the Bluetooth configuration page for the list of available options.
   Ensure that the Bluetooth role is configured appropriately.
   For mouse, it should be configured as peripheral.
#. Edit Kconfig to disable options that you do not use.

>    Some options have dependencies that may no longer be needed when other options are disabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Some options have dependencies that might not be needed when these options are disabled.
```

>    For example, when the LEDs module is disabled, PWM driver will also not be needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   For example, when the LEDs module is disabled, the PWM driver is not needed.
```

Application modules
*******************

For more information about each application module and its configuration details, see the following pages:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   hw_interface.rst
   modules.rst

> .. |preconfigured_build_types| replace:: The preconfigured build types configure the device with or without the bootloader and in debug or release mode.

Reviewer 2: I think this should be moved to nrf/doc/nrf/shortcuts.txt

Author: build types are our invention as neither zephyr nor NCS actually use them (though it would be great if others use them too)
I don't know how to handle this, maybe @greg-fer can help?

For information about differences between DTS files and Kconfig, see `Devicetree vs Kconfig`_.

Board configuration
*******************

The nRF Desktop application is modular.
Depending on requested functions, it can provide mouse, keyboard, or dongle functionality.
The selection of modules depends on the chosen role and also on the selected board.
For more information about modules available for each configuration, see :ref:`nrf_desktop_architecture`.

For a board to be supported by the application, you must provide a set of configuration files at ``applications/nrf_desktop/configuration/your_board_name``.
The application configuration files define both a set of options with which the nRF Desktop project will be created for your board and the selected :ref:`nrf_desktop_build_types`.
Include the following files in this directory:

Mandatory configuration files
    * Application configuration file for the ``ZDebug`` build type.
    * Configuration files for the selected modules.

Optional configuration files
    * Application configuration files for other build types.
    * Configuration file for the bootloader.

>     * DTS overlay file.

Reviewer: Partition manager configuration file for MCUBoot configurations (added recently)

nRF Desktop board configuration files
=====================================

The nRF Desktop project comes with configuration files for the following boards:

Gaming mouse (nrf52840_pca20041)
      * The board is defined in ``nrf/boards/arm/nrf52840_pca20041`` for the project-specific hardware.
      * To achieve gaming-grade performance:

        * The application is configured to act as a gaming mouse, with both BLE and USB transports enabled.
        * Bluetooth is configured to use Nordic's proprietary link layer.

      * |preconfigured_build_types|

Desktop mouse (nrf52_pca20044 and nrf52810_pca20045)
      * Both boards are meant for the project-specific hardware and are defined in ``nrf/boards/arm/nrf52_pca20044`` and ``nrf/boards/arm/nrf52810_pca20045``, respectively.
      * The application is configured to act as a mouse.
      * Only the Bluetooth Low Energy transport is enabled.
        Bluetooth uses Zephyr's software link layer.
      * There is no configuration with bootloader available.

> Sample mouse or keyboard (nrf52840_pca10056)

Reviewer: Add missing information about dongles (pca10100 DK dongle and 2 recently added)

Application porting guide
#########################

The following document describes configuration and provides a porting guide for the nRF Desktop project. 

Overview
********

Configuration sources
=====================

The nRF Desktop project uses following files as a sources of its configuration:

    * DTS files - these reflect HW configuration (:ref:`device-tree`).
    * Kconfig files - these reflect SW configuration (:ref:`kconfig_tips_and_tricks`).
    * _def files - specific to the nRF Desktop - contain configuration arrays for the application modules.

Board configuration
===================

> The nRF Desktop application is modular and depending on a requested functions can run provide a mouse, keyboard or dongle functionality.

Author: fixed

The selected set of modules depends on the chosen role and also on the selected board.

> For a board to be supported by the application a set of configuration files must be provided for in the directory ``applications/nrf_desktop/configuration/your_board_name``.

Author: fixed

Inside this directory there should reside:
    * Application configuration file for ``ZDebug`` build type (mandatory).
    * Application configuration files for other build types (optional).
    * Configuration file for the bootloader (optional).
    * Configuration files for the selected modules (mandatory).
    * DTS overlay file (optional).

The application configuration files define a set of options with which the nRF Desktop project will be created for this board and selected build type.
The nRF Desktop comes with configuration files for following boards:
    * nrf52840_pca20041 - gaming mouse.
      The board used is defined in ``nrf/boards/arm/nrf52840_pca20041`` for project specific HW.

>       The application is configured to act as a mouse with both BLE and USB transports enabled as input.

Reviewer: `as output` (of the mouse) or `for user input`

Author: fixed

      Bluetooth is configured to use Nordic's proprietary link-layer.
      This is to achieve gaming grade performance.
      The preconfigured build types configure the device with or without the bootloader and in debug or release mode.
    * nrf52840_pca10059 - dongle.
      The configuration uses Nordic's nRF52840 dongle defined in Zephyr.
      Since the board is generic a project specific changes are applied in dts overlay file.
      The application is configured to act as both a mouse and a keyboard.
      Bluetooth uses Nordic's proprietary link-layer and is configured to act as a central.
      Input data come from Bluetooth and are retransmitted to the USB.
      The preconfigured build types configure the device with or without the bootloader and in debug or release mode.
    * nrf52_pca20037 - keyboard.
      The board used is defined in ``nrf/boards/arm/nrf52_pca20037`` for project specific HW.

>       The application is configured to act as a keyboard with both BLE and USB transports enabled as input.

Reviewer: no USB here

Reviewer: `as output` (of the mouse) or `for user input`

Author: fixed

      Bluetooth is configured to use Nordic's proprietary link-layer.
      The preconfigured build types configure the device with or without the bootloader and in debug or release mode.
    * nrf52_pca20044 and nrf52810_pca20045 - desktop mice.
      Both boards are for project specific HW and located in ``nrf/boards/arm/nrf52_pca20044`` and ``nrf/boards/arm/nrf52810_pca20045`` respectively.
      The application is configured to act as a mouse.
      Only the BLE transport is enabled.
      The bluetooth uses Zephyr's SW link-layer.

>       For the nrf52810 device there is no configuration with bootloader available.

Reviewer: For nrf52832 there is no bootloader configuration too

Author: Fixed

    * nrf52840_pca10056 - sample mouse or keyboard
      The configuration uses the widely available nrf52840 DK.

>       The build types allow to build mouse both as mouse and keyboard.

Reviewer: `build application both as`

Author: fixed

>       Inputs are simulated.

Reviewer: `based on HW button presses.`

Author: fixed

      The configuration with bootloader is available.

Adding a new board
------------------
      
When creating your own board start by defining a board copying board files that is the closest match for your intended HW.
For example if the goal is to create a gaming mouse ``nrf/boards/arm/nrf52840_pca20041`` should be the base.

After that the dts files should be edited to make sure HW configuration is reflected. Pay attention on pins being used and bus configuration for optical sensor.

The next step is preparing the application configuration files.
Again it is recommented to start by copying the project files for the device that is the closest match for your intended HW.

> In case of a gaming mouse this would be files located in ``applications/nrf_desktop/configure/nrf52840_pca20040``.

Reviewer: 20041

Author: fixed

Depending on a chosen board you may need to edit dts overlay file.

> If you have crated a new board and its dts files fully describe your HW this will not be needed and overlay file may be empty.

Reviewer: created

Author: Fixed

> At the beginning focus should be put on a single configuration first.

Reviewer: `At the beginning focus should be put on a single configuration`?

Author: ok

By default the application is built for ``ZDebug`` build type so this is a good starting point.

The nRF Desktop ``nrf52840_pca20041`` gaming mouse enables the following board specific modules that would have to be changed for a new device.
    * the motion sensor
      The ``nrf52840_pca20041`` use PMW3360 optical motion sensor.
      The sensor is configured mainly in dts.
      A sensor type is selected in the application configuration.
      If new sensor needs to be added application configuration will have to be expanded - please read further for more details.
    * the wheel
      The wheel is based on the QDEC peripheral of nRF52840 SoC and HW related part is configured in dts.
    * the buttons
      To simplify configuration of arrays the nRF Desktop uses _def files.
      The buttons module's _def file contains pins assigned to rows and columns.
    * the battery
      The battery module _def file contains mapping needed to match voltage read from ADC to a battery level.
    * the LEDs
      The application uses two LEDs - one for peers state and the other for system state indication.
      To control each LED brightness project utilizes PWM channels.

>       The configuration is done in to steps.

Reviewer: two steps

Author: fixed

      First PWM peripheral needs to be configured in dts files.
      Second the leds module _def file needs to be configured to indicate which PWM channel is assigned to each LED color.

The SW related part of the configuration is present in Kconfig files.
Ensure that modules that you intend to use are enabled and the ones not needed are disabled.
Bare in mind that some modules have dependencies that may no longer be needed when module is disabled.

> For example when LEDs are not available LEDs module can be disabled, but also PWM will also probably not needed.

Reviewer: will be

Author: fixed
